Add EIP: Transaction Revert Protection (#8267)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-7640.md

---
eip: 7640
title: Transaction Revert Protection
description: Defines a new transaction type which rejects reverted transactions
author: Joseph Poon (@josephpoon), Christopher Jeffrey (@chjj), Boyma Fahnbulleh (@boymanjor)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-7640-transaction-revert-protection/19000
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: Core
created: 2024-02-28
requires: 140, 141, 658, 1559, 2718, 2930
---

## Abstract

A consensus rule to flag a reverted transaction as invalid, i.e., ineligible for
block inclusion, providing consensus layer assurance that users do not pay gas
fees for unsuccessful transaction execution.

[EIP-658](./eip-658.md) designates a transaction as "failed" if its receipt
contains a status code of `0x0`. This status code indicates that execution of
the transaction resulted in error, and the proposed state updates were
reverted. However, the transaction was still included in a block, and the
sender paid gas fees for a transaction that had no meaningful effect on the
state of the network.

We introduce a new [EIP-2718](./eip-2718.md) transaction type, with the format

> `0x05 || rlp([revert_protect, chain_id, nonce, max_priority_fee_per_gas,

Reviewer: transaction type should be left TBD and mentioned here as a parameter specified in a table as `TBD`

max_fee_per_gas, gas_limit, destination, amount, data, access_list,

> signature_y_parity, signature_r, signature_s])`.

Reviewer 2: This might be a bit too technical to add in the Abstract. Might be better to move it to Specification.

broadcast but are no longer valid at the time of block assembly, causing a
revert.

Without `revert_protect` enabled, anyone with access to an unprotected
transaction could then relay it to a party who includes it in a block as a
reverted transaction. Providing revert protection increases the ability to
match the functionality of centralized builders.

Due to the obvious DoS concerns, it is necessary to avoid relay of
reverted-protected transactions on the default Ethereum p2p mempool.
Transactions can easily be constructed to use a large amount of gas for no
payment, and can likewise be constructed such that they will _never_
successfully execute.

Alternate relay systems can be built on top of this change (where it would not
have been possible before). While existing RPC servers/services could provide
transaction revert protection with trust minimization, it is possible to
construct more decentralized designs and explore novel propagation policies.

For example, an alternate p2p mempool strictly for `revert_protect` could be
constructed where only 100 messages per second can be sent prioritized by the
amount of ETH staked with a socially agreed timeout for these transactions

> (e.g. 10 minutes). More exotic constructions can constructed via accounting of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(e.g. 10 minutes). More exotic constructions can be assembled via accounting of
```
Might have missed a word.
